join-the-alliance/readme.md, before:

# Join the Alliance (Star Wars)

Star Wars recruitment poster, sort of.

![screenshot](img/screenshot.gif)

I wanted to experiment with text.

I modified the outline of some of the characters with the form of some star wars rebel heroes. I wanted to see how this would look with a spacescape background. This is exploring the figure-ground relationship from gestalt theory.

I also wanted to see how an animation within text looked. This effect is created with a SVG mask. The light saber extends within the text. This might be a bit much in this instance, but I think it is a cool effect that can be used elsewhere.

Check out the [live demo](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/KKgKzXp).

## Attribution

- [Alliance Logo](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_the_Rebel_Alliance.svg) from Wikimedia.
- Background Photo by [Jeremy Perkins](https://unsplash.com/@jeremyperkins?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText) on Unpslash.
- Star field animation based on [this codepen](https://codepen.io/keithclark/pen/ibEnk) by Keith Clark.

Commit message:

Added vite as dev server. Added shiny book reveal experiment

join-the-alliance/readme.md, after:

# Join the Alliance (Star Wars)

Star Wars recruitment poster, sort of.

![screenshot](img/screenshot.gif)

I wanted to experiment with text.

I modified the outline of some of the characters with the form of some star wars rebel heroes. I wanted to see how this would look with a spacescape background. This is exploring the figure-ground relationship from gestalt theory.

I also wanted to see how an animation within text looked. This effect is created with a SVG mask. The light saber extends within the text. This might be a bit much in this instance, but I think it is a cool effect that can be used elsewhere.

To see it action:
- You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/KKgKzXp)., or
- You can run the local dev server with `npm run dev`, and find it at <http://localhost:3000/join-the-alliance/index.html>.

## Attribution

- [Alliance Logo](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_the_Rebel_Alliance.svg) from Wikimedia.
- Background Photo by [Jeremy Perkins](https://unsplash.com/@jeremyperkins?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText) on Unpslash.
- Star field animation based on [this codepen](https://codepen.io/keithclark/pen/ibEnk) by Keith Clark.
