readme.md, before:

# Artifice

 **ar•ti•fice** *är′tə-fĭs* ►

    n.
    Deception or trickery.
    n.
    Something contrived or made up to achieve an end, especially by deceiving; a stratagem or ruse: synonym: wile.

This is home to some (art) experiments to improve my frontend trickery.

Each experiment is organised into a folder. If the folder has:
- A subfolder with the title "original" - I recreated the original artwork in here (with a smidge of artistic license).
- A subfolder with the title "remix" -  this is where I go off and create my own thing.
- If there is neither of these subfolders, it's likely to be my own creation.

To try out the experiments, you can install the dependencies and run a local dev server:

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

The default URL is <http://localhost:3000>. The default page (*index.html*) will outline the experiments with links to explore them
.

<!-- TOC -->
**Table of Contents**
1. [Diamond Wipe](#diamond-wipe)
1. [Sin City (Microaction Graphic Novel)](#sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel)
1. [Orange, you thirsty?](#orange-you-thirsty)
1. [Johnny Cash Busted](#johnny-cash-busted)
1. [Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton](#straight-outta-some-swiss-canton)
1. [They See Me Rollin](#they-see-me-rollin)
1. [Dada](#dada)
1. [Trump channeling Kanye](#trump-channeling-kanye)
1. [Train Parallax](#train-parallax)
1. [Black to White Disks](#black-to-white-disks)
1. [LSD](#lsd)
1. [Shiny book reveal](#shiny-book-reveal)
1. [Christmas Decoration](#christmas-decoration)
1. [Logo tilt](#logo-tilt)
1. [NES Controller](#nes-controller)
1. [Star Wars Join the Alliance Recruitment Poster](#star-wars-join-the-alliance-recruitment-poster)
1. [Star Wars Circular Wipe Transition](#star-wars-circular-wipe-transition)
<!-- /TOC -->

## Diamond Wipe

A diamond-shaped wipe reveal of text.

<img
		src="diamond-wipe/img/demo.webp"
		alt="demo of sin city animation"
		width="787"
		height="604"
/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/NWBdYRj).

See ["diamond-wipe" folder](/diamond-wipe) for code.

## Sin City (Microaction Graphic Novel)

Add short bursts of action (animation) to a graphic novel.

<img
		src="sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel/img/demo.gif"
		alt="demo of sin city animation"
		width="688"
		height="271"
/>

It autoscrolls to show each tab at the top of the page and cycles through to the next.

I discuss this more in my post - [Make your own (interactive) graphic novel](https://www.roboleary.net/2021/07/14/make-your-own-graphic-novel.html).

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/eYVaZOr).

See ["sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel" folder](/sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel) for full info.

## Orange, you thirsty?

Whimsical take on a product card for orange juice. On hover, it reveals the product with an animation.

<img src="orange-you-thirsty/img/screenshots/demo.gif" alt="animated demo of Orange, you thirsty?" width=432 height=504 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/jObydPw).

See ["orange-you-thirsty" folder](/orange-you-thirsty) for full info.

## Johnny Cash Busted

Animation of Johnny Cash's arrest sheet being filled out.

<img src="johnny-cash-busted/img/screenshots/demo.gif" alt="animated demo of Johnny Cash Busted" width=600 height=628 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/QxeqaE).

See ["johnny-cash-busted" folder](/johnny-cash-busted) for full info.

## Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton

A poster for a NWA concert.

Inspired by [this Swissted poster](https://www.swissted.com/products/n-w-a-at-skateland-u-s-a-1988) by Mike Joyce.

See ["straight-outta-some-swiss-canton" folder](/straight-outta-some-swiss-canton) for full info.

### Original

<img src="straight-outta-some-swiss-canton/img/screenshot-original.png" alt="Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton screenshot" width=400 height=601 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

Animated variant.

<img src="straight-outta-some-swiss-canton/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated variant of Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton" width=400 height=457 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/YzWoMGE).

## They See Me Rollin

Kitsch wordplay of the opening lines of Chamillionaires' song *Ridin Dirty*.

<img src="they-see-me-rollin/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of They See Me Rollin" width=401 height=405 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/ZEpEKOb).

See ["they-see-me-rollin" folder](/they-see-me-rollin) for full info.

## Dada

Recreation of [this poster by Paul Rand](https://www.artic.edu/artworks/229395/dada-poster).

See ["dada" folder](/dada) for full info.

### Original

<img src="dada/img/screenshot.png" alt="screenshot of Dada" width=256 height=355 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

<img src="dada/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of Dada" width=250 height=350 loading="lazy"/>

Check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/XWKGEoR).

## Trump channeling Kanye

Trump spitting quotes from Kanye. Quotes are fetched from the [kanye.rest API](https://kanye.rest/).

<img src="trump-channeling-kanye/img/demo.gif" alt="demo of trump channeling Kanye" width="400" height="520" loading="lazy">

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/qeabZe).

See ["trump-channeling-kanye" folder](/trump-channeling-kanye) for full info.

## Train Parallax

Created for an article - [How to make an awesome horizontal parallax animation](https://roboleary.net/css/2020/11/17/parallax-animation.html).

<img src="train-parallax/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of Train Parallax" width=400 height=394 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/KKMYdQP).

See ["train parallax" folder](/train-parallax) for full info.

## Black to White Disks

This is a web rendition of the painting [Black to White Disks](https://www.wikiart.org/en/bridget-riley/black-to-white-disks-1952) by Bridget Riley.

See ["black-to-white-disks" folder](/black-to-white-disks) for full info.

### Original

The original is recreated faithfully in the 'original' folder.

<img src="black-to-white-disks/img/screenshot.png" alt="screenshot of Black to White Disks" width=536 height=616 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

<img src="black-to-white-disks/img/screenshot.gif" alt="demo of Black to White Disks" width=527 height=632 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/rNLqZPV).

## LSD

Web rendition of the spot painting [LSD](https://www.wikiart.org/en/damien-hirst/lsd) by Damian Hirst.

See ["lsd" folder](/lsd) for full info.

### Original

<img src="lsd/img/original.png" alt="screenshot of LSD" width=527 height=434 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

<img src="lsd/img/screenshot.gif" alt="demo of LSD" width=526 height=403 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/VwQObmw).

## Shiny book reveal

3D hover effect to open a book and reveal a synopsis of the story. I wanted to try out creating realistic reflections.

<img src="shiny-book-reveal/img/demo.gif" alt="demo of hover effect" width="470" height="552" loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/WmgVvx).

See ["shiny-book-reveal" folder](/shiny-book-reveal) for full info.

## Christmas Decoration

This an idea for a customisible Christmas decoration. It is like an accordian of cards. There are different designs on each side, you can fold them to create different combinations.

<img src="christmas-decoration/img/demo.gif" alt="demo of LSD" width=600 height=293 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/WNojGdm).

See ["christmas-decoration" folder](/christmas-decoration) for full info.

## Logo tilt

I wanted to try out a goofy idea. I wanted to animate a website’s logo so
that it would fall over when you scroll down, and right itself when you
scroll up. In particular, I wanted the logo to be a head or have a
cartoonish look.

<img
		src="logo-tilt/img/demo.gif"
		alt="demo of logo tilt"
		width="638"
		height="604"
		loading="lazy"
/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/LYeQRwq).

See ["logo-tilt" folder](/logo-tilt) for full info.

## NES Controller

This is a CSS recreation of a NES (Nintendo)  game controller. It is an experiment to see the impact shadows can have on the realism of a design. You can toggle the shadows on/off to judge for yourself!

<img
		src="nes-controller/img/screenshot.png"
		alt="screenshot of nes controller demo"
		width="867"
		height="443"
		loading="lazy"
/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/ZELzVPV).

See ["nes-controller" folder](/nes-controller) for code.

## Star Wars Join the Alliance Recruitment Poster

Star Wars recruitment poster, sort of.

<img src="star-wars-join-the-alliance/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of Join the Alliance (Star Wars)" width=396 height=476 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/KKgKzXp).

See ["star-wars-join-the-alliance" folder](/star-wars-join-the-alliance) for full info.

## Star Wars Circular Wipe Transition

Circular wipe transition of scenes.

Since the [`mask` CSS property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/mask) is not fully implemented across browsers, I looked for alternatives that have better support.

I created 2 versions:
1. `clip-path` version: The `clip-path` property is the basis of the animation. The transition edges are hard. You can see it in [this codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/YzjQmoG).
1. SVG version: A SVG mask is used. The transition edges are soft - a `radial-gradient` is applied to the `mask`. You can see it in [this codepen](https://codepen.io/robatronbobby/full/abjyOOb).

<img src="star-wars-circular-wipe/assets/img/demo.webp" alt="animated demo of circular wipe transition" width=954 height=732 loading="lazy"/>

See ["star-wars-circular-wipe" folder](/star-wars-circular-wipe/) for code.

Commit message:

Update codpen link for " Star Wars - Circular Wipe Transition" and add post link to decription.

readme.md, after:

# Artifice

 **ar•ti•fice** *är′tə-fĭs* ►

    n.
    Deception or trickery.
    n.
    Something contrived or made up to achieve an end, especially by deceiving; a stratagem or ruse: synonym: wile.

This is home to some (art) experiments to improve my frontend trickery.

Each experiment is organised into a folder. If the folder has:
- A subfolder with the title "original" - I recreated the original artwork in here (with a smidge of artistic license).
- A subfolder with the title "remix" -  this is where I go off and create my own thing.
- If there is neither of these subfolders, it's likely to be my own creation.

To try out the experiments, you can install the dependencies and run a local dev server:

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

The default URL is <http://localhost:3000>. The default page (*index.html*) will outline the experiments with links to explore them
.

<!-- TOC -->
**Table of Contents**
1. [Diamond Wipe](#diamond-wipe)
1. [Sin City (Microaction Graphic Novel)](#sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel)
1. [Orange, you thirsty?](#orange-you-thirsty)
1. [Johnny Cash Busted](#johnny-cash-busted)
1. [Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton](#straight-outta-some-swiss-canton)
1. [They See Me Rollin](#they-see-me-rollin)
1. [Dada](#dada)
1. [Trump channeling Kanye](#trump-channeling-kanye)
1. [Train Parallax](#train-parallax)
1. [Black to White Disks](#black-to-white-disks)
1. [LSD](#lsd)
1. [Shiny book reveal](#shiny-book-reveal)
1. [Christmas Decoration](#christmas-decoration)
1. [Logo tilt](#logo-tilt)
1. [NES Controller](#nes-controller)
1. [Star Wars - Join the Alliance Recruitment Poster](#star-wars---join-the-alliance-recruitment-poster)
1. [Star Wars - Circular Wipe Transition](#star-wars---circular-wipe-transition)
<!-- /TOC -->

## Diamond Wipe

A diamond-shaped wipe reveal of text.

<img
		src="diamond-wipe/img/demo.webp"
		alt="demo of sin city animation"
		width="787"
		height="604"
/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/NWBdYRj).

See ["diamond-wipe" folder](/diamond-wipe) for code.

## Sin City (Microaction Graphic Novel)

Add short bursts of action (animation) to a graphic novel.

<img
		src="sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel/img/demo.gif"
		alt="demo of sin city animation"
		width="688"
		height="271"
/>

It autoscrolls to show each tab at the top of the page and cycles through to the next.

I discuss this more in my post - [Make your own (interactive) graphic novel](https://www.roboleary.net/2021/07/14/make-your-own-graphic-novel.html).

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/eYVaZOr).

See ["sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel" folder](/sin-city-microaction-graphic-novel) for full info.

## Orange, you thirsty?

Whimsical take on a product card for orange juice. On hover, it reveals the product with an animation.

<img src="orange-you-thirsty/img/screenshots/demo.gif" alt="animated demo of Orange, you thirsty?" width=432 height=504 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/jObydPw).

See ["orange-you-thirsty" folder](/orange-you-thirsty) for full info.

## Johnny Cash Busted

Animation of Johnny Cash's arrest sheet being filled out.

<img src="johnny-cash-busted/img/screenshots/demo.gif" alt="animated demo of Johnny Cash Busted" width=600 height=628 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/QxeqaE).

See ["johnny-cash-busted" folder](/johnny-cash-busted) for full info.

## Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton

A poster for a NWA concert.

Inspired by [this Swissted poster](https://www.swissted.com/products/n-w-a-at-skateland-u-s-a-1988) by Mike Joyce.

See ["straight-outta-some-swiss-canton" folder](/straight-outta-some-swiss-canton) for full info.

### Original

<img src="straight-outta-some-swiss-canton/img/screenshot-original.png" alt="Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton screenshot" width=400 height=601 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

Animated variant.

<img src="straight-outta-some-swiss-canton/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated variant of Straight Outta Some Swiss Canton" width=400 height=457 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/YzWoMGE).

## They See Me Rollin

Kitsch wordplay of the opening lines of Chamillionaires' song *Ridin Dirty*.

<img src="they-see-me-rollin/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of They See Me Rollin" width=401 height=405 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/ZEpEKOb).

See ["they-see-me-rollin" folder](/they-see-me-rollin) for full info.

## Dada

Recreation of [this poster by Paul Rand](https://www.artic.edu/artworks/229395/dada-poster).

See ["dada" folder](/dada) for full info.

### Original

<img src="dada/img/screenshot.png" alt="screenshot of Dada" width=256 height=355 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

<img src="dada/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of Dada" width=250 height=350 loading="lazy"/>

Check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/XWKGEoR).

## Trump channeling Kanye

Trump spitting quotes from Kanye. Quotes are fetched from the [kanye.rest API](https://kanye.rest/).

<img src="trump-channeling-kanye/img/demo.gif" alt="demo of trump channeling Kanye" width="400" height="520" loading="lazy">

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/qeabZe).

See ["trump-channeling-kanye" folder](/trump-channeling-kanye) for full info.

## Train Parallax

Created for an article - [How to make an awesome horizontal parallax animation](https://roboleary.net/css/2020/11/17/parallax-animation.html).

<img src="train-parallax/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of Train Parallax" width=400 height=394 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/KKMYdQP).

See ["train parallax" folder](/train-parallax) for full info.

## Black to White Disks

This is a web rendition of the painting [Black to White Disks](https://www.wikiart.org/en/bridget-riley/black-to-white-disks-1952) by Bridget Riley.

See ["black-to-white-disks" folder](/black-to-white-disks) for full info.

### Original

The original is recreated faithfully in the 'original' folder.

<img src="black-to-white-disks/img/screenshot.png" alt="screenshot of Black to White Disks" width=536 height=616 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

<img src="black-to-white-disks/img/screenshot.gif" alt="demo of Black to White Disks" width=527 height=632 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/rNLqZPV).

## LSD

Web rendition of the spot painting [LSD](https://www.wikiart.org/en/damien-hirst/lsd) by Damian Hirst.

See ["lsd" folder](/lsd) for full info.

### Original

<img src="lsd/img/original.png" alt="screenshot of LSD" width=527 height=434 loading="lazy"/>

### Remix

<img src="lsd/img/screenshot.gif" alt="demo of LSD" width=526 height=403 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/VwQObmw).

## Shiny book reveal

3D hover effect to open a book and reveal a synopsis of the story. I wanted to try out creating realistic reflections.

<img src="shiny-book-reveal/img/demo.gif" alt="demo of hover effect" width="470" height="552" loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/WmgVvx).

See ["shiny-book-reveal" folder](/shiny-book-reveal) for full info.

## Christmas Decoration

This an idea for a customisible Christmas decoration. It is like an accordian of cards. There are different designs on each side, you can fold them to create different combinations.

<img src="christmas-decoration/img/demo.gif" alt="demo of LSD" width=600 height=293 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/WNojGdm).

See ["christmas-decoration" folder](/christmas-decoration) for full info.

## Logo tilt

I wanted to try out a goofy idea. I wanted to animate a website’s logo so
that it would fall over when you scroll down, and right itself when you
scroll up. In particular, I wanted the logo to be a head or have a
cartoonish look.

<img
		src="logo-tilt/img/demo.gif"
		alt="demo of logo tilt"
		width="638"
		height="604"
		loading="lazy"
/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/LYeQRwq).

See ["logo-tilt" folder](/logo-tilt) for full info.

## NES Controller

This is a CSS recreation of a NES (Nintendo)  game controller. It is an experiment to see the impact shadows can have on the realism of a design. You can toggle the shadows on/off to judge for yourself!

<img
		src="nes-controller/img/screenshot.png"
		alt="screenshot of nes controller demo"
		width="867"
		height="443"
		loading="lazy"
/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/ZELzVPV).

See ["nes-controller" folder](/nes-controller) for code.

## Star Wars - Join the Alliance Recruitment Poster

Star Wars recruitment poster, sort of.

<img src="star-wars-join-the-alliance/img/screenshot.gif" alt="animated demo of Join the Alliance (Star Wars)" width=396 height=476 loading="lazy"/>

You can check out the [codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/pen/KKgKzXp).

See ["star-wars-join-the-alliance" folder](/star-wars-join-the-alliance) for full info.

## Star Wars - Circular Wipe Transition

Circular wipe transition of scenes.

Since the [`mask` CSS property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/mask) is not fully implemented across browsers, I looked for alternatives that have better support.

I created 2 versions:
1. CSS `clip-path` version: The [`clip-path`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/clip-path) property is the basis of the animation. The transition edges are hard. You can see it in [this codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/YzjQmoG).
1. SVG `mask` version: A SVG [`mask`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/mask) is used. The transition edges are soft. You can see it in [this codepen](https://codepen.io/robjoeol/full/dyjzvdb).

I discuss these implementations in the post - [An awesome, cross-browser Star Wars circular wipe transition? CSS houdini vs clippath vs mask](https://www.roboleary.net/css/2023/01/16/awesome-cross-browser-starwars-circular-wipe-transition-css-houdini-clipath-mask.html).

<img src="star-wars-circular-wipe/assets/img/demo.webp" alt="animated demo of circular wipe transition" width=954 height=732 loading="lazy"/>

See ["star-wars-circular-wipe" folder](/star-wars-circular-wipe/) for code.
